Fitness: 19.738249115318627

Description:
Designing an efficient algorithm to solve the Multi-dimensional Weight-Constrained Knapsack Problem (MDWKP) through a hybrid approach that integrates dynamic item prioritization with adaptive heuristic optimization. The algorithm aims to maximize the total prize collection from a set of items while adhering to stringent multi-dimensional weight constraints. The key strategies include:

1. Dynamic Item Prioritization: Utilize a weighted ratio analysis to dynamically sort items based on their value-to-weight ratio, which adapts to real-time weight constraints.
2. Adaptive Heuristic Optimization: Implement an adaptive heuristic that adjusts heuristic values based on current weight usage and item value-to-weight ratios, ensuring that the search for optimal solutions is both informed and responsive to the problem's evolving nature.
3. Normalization Techniques: Apply normalization methods to stabilize the heuristic process, reducing the impact of outliers and ensuring consistent performance across different problem instances.
4. Optimization Algorithms: Employ a combination of genetic algorithms and local search heuristics to explore the solution space effectively, balancing global search with local optimization.
5. Performance Metrics: Evaluate the algorithm's performance using established metrics such as total prize collected, solution quality, computational time, and adherence to weight constraints.

The proposed algorithm will provide a clear and structured solution to the MDWKP, avoiding the pitfalls of vague heuristics and insufficient optimization strategies, thereby delivering robust and efficient results.

Code:
import numpy as np
import numpy as np

def heuristics_v2(prize: np.ndarray, weight: np.ndarray) -> np.ndarray:
    # Initialize the heuristic array with zeros
    heuristics = np.zeros_like(prize)
    
    # Calculate the value-to-weight ratio for each item
    value_to_weight_ratio = prize / weight.sum(axis=1, keepdims=True)
    
    # Calculate the heuristic for each item based on its value-to-weight ratio
    heuristics = value_to_weight_ratio.sum(axis=1)
    
    return heuristics