Fitness: 21.410755157470703

Description:
New Problem Description:

The Dynamic Load Balancing Vehicle Routing Problem (DLVRP) is a specialized optimization challenge that aims to optimize delivery routes for a fleet of vehicles under strict capacity constraints. The DLVRP involves selecting the most efficient paths for vehicles to deliver goods to a set of customers while ensuring that the cumulative load on each vehicle does not exceed its carrying capacity.

The problem is defined as follows:

Objective:
Minimize the total distance traveled by all vehicles while satisfying the demand constraints of each customer.

Constraints:
1. Each vehicle has a maximum capacity that must not be exceeded.
2. Each customer must be visited exactly once by a single vehicle.
3. The total demand for any vehicle's route must not exceed its capacity, allowing for return trips to the depot if necessary.

Optimization Strategies:
1. A cumulative demand analysis will be conducted to dynamically assess the total demand along potential routes, ensuring balanced vehicle loads.
2. A demand normalization strategy will be implemented to differentiate between cumulative and normalized demands, providing a clear reflection of load distribution.
3. A capacity-based prioritization will be enforced through an edge feasibility mask, rigorously evaluating the impact of adding an edge on a vehicle's capacity before incorporating it into a route.
4. The algorithm will prioritize simplicity and clarity in demand and capacity management, avoiding ambiguity and complexity.
5. The cumulative demand will be directly utilized for route prioritization, coupled with optimization techniques that emphasize computational efficiency without compromising solution quality.

The successful implementation of the DLVRP will yield robust and effective routing plans that enhance operational efficiency and customer satisfaction, navigating the complexities of fleet logistics with precision and reliability.

Code:
import torch
import torch

def heuristics_v2(distance_matrix: torch.Tensor, demands: torch.Tensor) -> torch.Tensor:
    # Calculate the cumulative demand for each node considering the depot
    cumulative_demand = demands + demands[0]
    
    # Normalize the cumulative demand by the total vehicle capacity
    normalized_demand = cumulative_demand / demands.sum()
    
    # Calculate the heuristic values based on normalized demand and distance
    # Negative values for undesirable edges (high demand or high distance)
    # Positive values for promising edges (low demand or low distance)
    heuristic_values = -normalized_demand * distance_matrix
    
    return heuristic_values